# Cascading Style Sheets

## 1. Ways of Styling 
### 01. Browser Default Styling
* The same html file may look different when viewed on different browsers.
    * Some tags are supported, some aren't
    * Browsers may have different <font color="orange">default styles</font>
* In general, default looks are plain

### 02. Adding Style
* As styling tags were phased out of html, styling was done with style attribute  
`<h1 style = "color:blue">Sytled Heading</h1>`
    <h1 style = "color:blue">Sytled Heading</h1>
* Not a good way(violation of tenet of separation)

### 03. Cascading Style Sheet
* CSS defined generic rules that can apply to multiple elements  
```
h1 {
    color: blue;
}
```

#### A. Rule Syntax
* Brackets and semicolons are very important
* This is where a good editor can make a BIG difference
* Comment
    * `/* Comment */`

#### B. Multiple Properties
* Separate with semicolons
```
h1 {
    color: blue;
    background-color: yellow;
}
```

## 2. Ways of Appling Style Sheet
### 01. Internal Style Sheet
* Styling is defined within `<head>`
```
<head>
    <meta charset = "UTF-8">
    <title>Title here</title>
    <style>
        h1 {
            color: blue;
        }
    /* Don't forget a closing style tag *>
    </style>
</head>
```
* Rules are defined within `<style>`
* Styles are applied to all elements in that file
* Good method to keep code in a single file

### 02. External Style Sheet
* You can put rules in an external file (don't use the style tag!)
* A link to the style sheet is put in the head section
`<link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css">`
* Styles are applied to all elements in all files that links to the style sheet

## 3. The "Cascading" Part of CSS
* Precedings are overwritten by the followings
1. Browser default
2. <font color="orange">External</font> style sheets
3. <font color="orange">Internal</font> style (in the head section)
4. <font color="orange">Inline</font> style (inside an HTML element)

## 4. Rule Precedence
* What if one selector is defined in two external files?
    * The rules from the most recent file have precedence
* What if one selector has more than one rule in the same file?
    * The most recent rule has precedence
```
h1 {
    color: blue;
    font-family: Arial;
}

h1 {
    font-family: "Times;
}
```
* !important
* It is possible to override later rules, use !important
```
h1 {
    color: blue;
    font-family: Arial !important;
}

h1 {
    font-family: "Times;
}
```

## Review
* Why do we want/need to separate content from formatting?
* How does this also tie in to external/internal style sheets?
* Understand that this is very powerful. See http://www.csszengarden.com/