# Display and Visibility

## 1. Display
### 01. Display is Key to Layout
* Every element is a box
* Display affects the layout of neighboring elements

### 02. Common Values
* inline: sits next to other elements
    * takes up "just enough" width and height
* block: forces line break
    * default: take up all horizontal width and "just enough" height
    * rules can set height and width
* inline-block:
    * same as inline, but accepts height and width
* none: removed from page

### 03. Complementary Properties
* float
    * Reposition elements to the right or left
    * (floating) Elements are aware of one another and will not overlap
    * Values: left, right
* clear
    * Used to keep floating elements away
    * Values: left, right, both

## 2. Visibility

### 01. Element Overflow
* What happens when you set a height/width and the content doesn't fit any longer?
* Use overflow to determine access

### 02. Overflow
* visible
    * can cause text to show up "on top" of other text
* hidden
    * hides anything that goes beyond bounding box
    * This can cause problems since if the user increases font size, they may not be able to see content
* scroll
    * gives horizontal and vertical scrollbars
* auto
    * adds scrollbars as needed

### 03. Other Display Values
* New display properties are available, but not always supported:
    * Table
        * Sometimes you want to have table-like layout without using table structure, use <font color="orange">display:table</font> along with <font color="orange">dispaly:table-cell</font> for elements. 
    * Grid
    * Flexbox

### 04. Visibility
* Specifies whether or not element is visible
* Options include:
    * visible
    * hidden
    * collapse (only for table elements)

## Review
* Display is just one tool for positioning our elements on the page
* Early design will make the coding easier
* Utilize tools to see the different options